---
layout: post
title: Arrays
published: true
tags: [Java Language]
---

Arrays are structures that allow the grouping of related information, typically of the same type. Arrays can have one or many dimensions. An element is accessed by its index. In Java, arrays are dynamically allocated.

## One Dimensional Array

These are essentially a list of objects of the same type. As with variables, creating an array requires a declaration and an instantiation. Declaring the array simply indicates the type of each element: *type name[];*. The `new` keyword is used to actually assign a block of memory for the array during instantiation: *name = new type[size];*. The size of the array must be specified upfront so that the appropriate amount of memory can be assigned. For example, the following declares an array of 10 integers:
```java
int[] numbers;
numbers = new int[10];
```

As with any variable, these statements can be combined: `int[] numbers = new int[10];`

Another way to create an array is to initialize it when it is declared. This command doesn't need the `new` keyword.
```java
int[] numbers = {2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20};
```

Initially after creation, the elements are assigned their default values, that is **zero** for numeric types, **false** for boolean types, and **null** for reference types.

To access an element in an array, you need to know its index. Java indexes typically start from `0`.
```java
// To get the fourth number in the array, we actually have to use index value '3'
int fourth = numbers[3];
```

## Alternative Array Declaration

Both of the following array declarations are correct:
```java
int al[] = new int[3];
int[] a2 = new int[3];

char twod1[][] = new char[3][4];
char[][] twod2 = new char[3][4];
```

## Related Exceptions

- ArrayIndexOutOfBounds
