---
layout: post
title: "Test Driven Development"
published: true
tags: [Best Practises]
---

TDD is the process of writing failing unit tests before writing the production code to satisfy and pass the tests. This process is meant to be a tool to narrow down the scope and requirements of the task at hand. It ensures that only code necessary to satisfy the tests is written, leading to cleaner concepts and design in the code. A project with a good suite of unit tests also makes refactoring and general development faster as developers have more confidence in their changes.

In his book, Test Driven Development, Kent Beck creates a growing and shrinking list of business rules that his example feature must satisfy. Each of these rules becomes a test case, and subsequently a unit test. So development of a feature doesn’t start with potential production code - it starts with one failing unit test.

There is a common pattern to writing tests; first the objects required for the test are set up, the test acts on the objects, and lastly we check the results against the expected outcome. This process can be remembered easily as _Red, Green, Refactor_.

### _Red_:
- Add a little test. The rule of thumb is to start with the business rule that requires the least amount of change to go from a failing unit test to one that passes.
- Run the test - it should fail

### _Green_:
- Make a change to satisfy compilation or logical requirements of the test. The three approaches Beck suggests to making a test work are to fake it, the obvious implementation, and triangulation.
  - Faking a result is simply returning exactly what is expected, usually by returning a hard coded constant.
  - If the implementation to satisfy the test is simple and obvious enough, write it.
  - It is always tempting to generalise and optimise from the beginning. However, in TDD triangulation refers to only generalizing the code when there are two or more examples of duplication.
- Run the test - it should pass

### _Refactor_:
- Refactor to remove any duplication in the code and test code. This process drives the design of the solution.

A side effect of following the TDD process is that almost each line of your solution should be covered by at least one test. If a line of code is changed, a unit test should fail. However, this leads to the misconception that to follow TDD means simply writing tests until all lines of code are covered. While this may be the only way to work with legacy code that has no tests, it severely defeats the point of the TDD process.

Unit tests should be quick and easy to run, report meaningfully on success or failures, and should each run independently of each other. This all feeds back into faster development and more confidence in making future changes.
